## Singletons
**Prerequisite:** determined by individual instructor.
**Prerequisite:** Be able to swim 300 yards.
**Prerequisite:** Majors who have satisfactorily completed all foundation and required courses with numbers below 380.
**Prerequisite:** Previous participation in summer communication series.
**Prerequisites for certain offerings.**
**Prerequisite:** three semesters of voice lessons, one of which may be voice class; or permission of instructor.
**Prerequisites:** Two semesters of voice study and THEAT 131: Acting for the Lyric Stage.
**Prerequisite:** 4 or 5 on AP Calculus AB exam or permission of the Mathematics Placement Director.
**Prerequisite:** proficiency in algebra and geometry.
**Prerequisite:** sophomore status or higher. Open to first-year students with permission of the instructor.
**Prerequisite:** mathematics placement recommendation.
**Prerequisites:** major in computer science with senior standing, and completion of or concurrent enrollment in computer science core courses, ordinarily including CSCI 263, or permission of instructor.
**Prerequisites:** open to junior nursing majors only in the fall of 2015 and to sophomore nursing majors in the spring of 2016 and each spring thereafter. Concurrent registration with NURS 311, NURS 312, and NURS 313 in the fall of 2015. Concurrent registration with ID 210 in the spring of 2016 and each spring thereafter.


## Prereq: thing
Prerequisite: at least five previous courses in [the] department.
Prerequisite: one previous course in department. Non-majors may register with permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: at least one 250-level course.
Prerequisite: at least three previous courses in department.
Prerequisite: minimum of one 250-level course (two recommended).
Prerequisite: minimum of one 270-level course.
Prerequisite: Any level II biology, chemistry, or physics course or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: one course in philosophy or consent of instructor.
Prerequisite: one level III course in philosophy.
Prerequisite: one sociology/anthropology course.
Prerequisites: two courses in philosophy, one of which must be either PHIL 235 or PHIL 236 or permission of the department chair.
Prerequisites: three foundation studio courses plus a minimum of two level II studio courses.
Prerequisites: Open to juniors and seniors who have completed ENGL 185 and at least two level II English courses or by permission of the instructor.


## Um...
Prerequisites: (for art history) three courses in area of study.
Prerequisites: (for art history) two upper-division courses in area of study.
Prerequisites: (for studio art) four foundation courses and three courses in area of study.
Prerequisites: (for studio art) four foundation courses and two upper-division courses in area of study.


## Prereq: Course
Prerequisite: AMCON 101 and AMCON 102. Offered annuallyin the fall semester. Counts towards American studies major.
Prerequisite: ART 102.
Prerequisite: BIO 143 and junior standing.
Prerequisite: BIO 143, or BIO 150 and BIO 227, or BIO 125, or CH/BI 227.
Prerequisite: BIO 227 and BIO 233, or BIO 125 and BIO 233.
Prerequisite: calculus or consent of the instructor.
Prerequisite: CHEM 126, or CH/BI 227, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: CHEM 248.
Prerequisite: CHIN 111 or placement.
Prerequisite: CHIN 112 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: CHIN 112 or JAPAN 112 or permission of instructor. Must be accepted into Asian Conversations program to register.
Prerequisite: CHIN 232 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: CHIN 302 or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: completion of EDUC 389 or EDUC 390 or equivalent.
Prerequisites:BIO 143, BIO 243 and ESTH 375.
Prerequisite: concurrent registration in (or previous completion of) MATH 119 or MATH 120 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: concurrent registration in CHEM 255.
Prerequisite: concurrent registration in CHEM 371.
Prerequisite: concurrent registration in CHEM 382.
Prerequisite: concurrent registration in CSCI 251.
Prerequisite: concurrent registration in MUSIC 112.
Prerequisite: concurrent registration in MUSIC 161 (or placement into a higher level of keyboard proficiency).
Prerequisite: ECON 261 and either ECON 263 or STAT 272, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: EDUC 260, EDUC 290, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: EDUC 290 and approval of teacher education application.
Prerequisite: EDUC 290 or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: EDUC 330 and EDUC 355.
Prerequisite: EDUC 330 or permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: EDUC 330.
Prerequisite: ESAC 157, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: ESTH 238 and permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: FREN 111 or placement.
Prerequisite: FREN 232 or FREN 235, or equivalent.
Prerequisite: CSCI 121 or CSCI 125 or consent of the instructor.
Prerequisite: CSCI 121 or CSCI 125 or CSCI 241 or PHYS 130 or MATH 252 or permission of instructor; concurrent registration in CSCI 252 is required.
Prerequisite: DANCE 106 or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: DANCE 111 and permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: DANCE 111 or DANCE 121 or DANCE 210/DANCE 211 or DANCE220/DANCE221, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: DANCE 121 and DANCE 130/DANCE 131 and/or permission of the instructor.
Prerequisite: DANCE 210/DANCE 211 (at least twice) and/or permission of the instructor. Open to majors and other students with instructor's permission.
Prerequisite: DANCE 210/DANCE 211 or DANCE 250/DANCE 251 (at least twice) and/or permission of the instructor. Open to majors and other students with instructor's permission.
Prerequisite: DANCE 221.
Prerequisites: PHYS 131 or permission of instructor, and concurrent registration in (or previous completion of) MATH 220.
Prerequisites: PHYS 232 and MATH 230.
Prerequisites: PHYS 244 and PHYS 374, MATH 226, and concurrent registration in PHYS 386.
Prerequisites: PSCI 220 and at least one comparative politics course or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: PSCI 220 and one course in the subfield or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: PSYCH 125, and STAT 110 or STAT 212 or STAT 214 or ECON 263.
Prerequisites: PSYCH 230, plus PSYCH 238 or NEURO 239.
Prerequisites: PSYCH 230, plus PSYCH 244 or PSYCH 249.
Prerequisites: SOAN 121, PSYCH 241, and BIO 123 or BIO 243; open to non-majors by permission of chair only.
Prerequisites: SPAN 250 and at least one 270-level course.
Prerequisites: STAT 110, STAT 212, or STAT 214, or ECON 263, or equivalent preparation, or permission of the instructor.
Prerequisites: SWRK 221 and concurrent enrollment in SWRK 246.
Prerequisites: THEAT 110 or THEAT 180, THEAT 115 or THEAT 130 or THEAT 131, and THEAT 140.
Prerequisite: MEDIA 160.
Prerequisite: MGMT 225.
Prerequisite: MATH 119 or MATH 120 and one of Economics 110-121, or consent of the instructor.
Prerequisite: MATH 119 or MATH 120 or equivalent, or mathematics placement recommendation.
Prerequisite: MATH 119 or MATH 120 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: MATH 119 or MATH 120.
Prerequisite: MATH 126 or MATH 128 and MATH 220.
Prerequisite: MATH 126 or MATH 128, and MATH 220. Permission of instructor required for first-year students.
Prerequisite: MATH 126 or MATH 128.
Prerequisite: MATH 220. Permission of instructor required for first-year students.
Prerequisite: MATH 230.
Prerequisite: MATH 244.
Prerequisite: GERM 112 or placement by test.
Prerequisite: GERM 231 or placement.
Prerequisite: GERM 232 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: GERM 251 or GERM 252.
Prerequisite: GREEK 112 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: GREEK 231 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: HIST 203 or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: JAPAN 112 or its equivalent.
Prerequisite: JAPAN 232 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: LATIN 112 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: LATIN 231 or equivalent. Offered every third year.
Prerequisite: MUSIC 114 and sophomore standing; MUSIC 166, MUSIC 167, MUSIC 168, MUSIC 169, or equivalent experience recommended.
Prerequisite: MUSIC 114, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: MUSIC 114.
Prerequisite: MUSIC 162, completion of Piano Proficiency Level 2, or audition placement; concurrent registration in MUSIC 212 recommended.
Prerequisite: MUSIC 214.
Prerequisite: MUSIC 223.
Prerequisite: MUSIC 251.
Prerequisite: NORW 112 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: NORW 232 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: NORW 253 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: NURS 336.
Prerequisite: one of Economics 110-121 or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: open to junior nursing majors only. Previous or concurrent registration with NURS 211. Concurrent registration with NURS 311 and NURS 312.
Prerequisite: open to junior nursing majors only. Previous or concurrent registration with NURS 211. Concurrent registration with NURS 311 and NURS 313.
Prerequisite: open to junior nursing majors only. Previous or concurrent registration with NURS 211. Concurrent registration with NURS 312 and NURS 313.
Prerequisite: permission of instructor required for students not majoring in theory/composition or music education.
Prerequisite: permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: PHYS 125 or PHYS 131.
Prerequisite: PHYS 374 or PHYS 375.
Prerequisite: previous or concurrent registration in CHEM 247.
Prerequisite: previous or concurrent registration in CHEM 379.
Prerequisite: PSCI 220 and at least one comparative politics course or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: PSCI 220 and one course in the subfield or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: PSCI 294.
Prerequisite: PSYCH 125 or BIO 123, BIO 125, or BIO 227 or CH/BI 227.
Prerequisite: PSYCH 125 or BIO 123, BIO 227 or CH/BI 227.
Prerequisite: PSYCH 125 or BIO 125. Offered annually.
Prerequisite: PSYCH 125, at least three courses in the department, and permission of instructor; PSYCH 230 is strongly recommended.
Prerequisite: PSYCH 125.
Prerequisite: PSYCH 230, plus PSYCH 244 or PSYCH 247.
Prerequisite: PSYCH 230.
Prerequisite: RUSSN 112 or equivalent.
Prerequisite: RUSSN 232 or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: SOAN 291.
Prerequisite: SPAN 111 or placement.
Prerequisite: SPAN 112 or placement.
Prerequisite: SPAN 231or placement.
Prerequisite: SPAN 232 or placement into SPAN 250.
Prerequisite: SPAN 250.
Prerequisite: SPAN 275.
Prerequisite: STAT 110 or STAT 212.
Prerequisite: STAT 110, STAT 212, or STAT 214, or ECON 263, or equivalent preparation, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: STAT 110, STAT 212, STAT 214 or ECON 263; PSYCH 230; four additional courses in the department; and permission of instructor. PSYCH 298 is strongly recommended.
Prerequisite: STAT 272 and MATH 262.
Prerequisite: SWRK 261. For senior majors only.
Prerequisite: THEAT 110 or THEAT 180 or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: THEAT 140 is recommended.
Prerequisite: two terms of DANCE 111 or permission of instructor. Open to dance majors and other students with permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: ASIAN 275 and completion of BTS-T or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: BIO 150 and BIO 227 or CH/BI 227 recommeded .
Prerequisites: BIO 150 or BIO 126, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: BIO 150 or BIO 126.
Prerequisites: BIO 150, and CHEM 125 or CHEM 121/CHEM 123 or CH/BI 125; or BIO 125 and CHEM 125 or CHEM 121/CHEM 123 or CH/BI 125.
Prerequisites: BIO 261, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: BTS-T or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: CHEM 126 or CH/BI 227 or permission of instructor and concurrent registration in CHEM 357; previous completion of PHYS 124 or PHYS 130 is recommended.
Prerequisites: CHEM 126 or CH/BI 227 or permission of the instructor, and concurrent registration in CHEM 256.
Prerequisites: CHEM 255 and CHEM 256; previous or concurrent enrollment in PHYS 125 or PHYS 131 is recommended; concurrent registration in CHEM 378 is required.
Prerequisites: CHEM125 or CHEM 121/CHEM 123 or CH/BI 125; BIO 150 is strongly preferred.
Prerequisites: completion of or concurrent enrollment in CSCI 241 and CSCI 251, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: DANCE 111 and permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: DANCE 111 or DANCE 115, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: ECON 261 and ECON 262, and either ECON 263 or STAT 272, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: ECON 261and either ECON 263 or STAT 272 or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: ECON 262 and either ECON 263 or STAT 272, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: ENGL 185 plus at least two English courses at level II, or permission of the instructor.
Prerequisites: ENGL 185 plus at least two English courses atl evel II, or permission of the instructor.
Prerequisites: ENVST 137 or a level I course in biology, chemistry, or physics.
Prerequisites: GCON 113, GCON 115, and GCON 116.
Prerequisites: junior or senior standing and PSYCH 230, plus PSYCH 244 or PSYCH 247.
Prerequisites: MATH 119 or MATH 120 or equivalent, or CSCI125, or some previous statistics (e.g., AP Statistics or STAT 110 or ECON 263).
Prerequisites: MATH 119 or MATH 120, and one of Economics 110-121 or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: MATH 119 or MATH 120, and one of Economics 110-121 or permission of instructor. Offered each semester.
Prerequisites: MATH 126 or MATH 128, and MATH 220.
Prerequisites: MUSIC 214, MUSIC 241, MUSIC 242, or permission of instructor; MUSIC 263 and MUSIC 264 preferred.
Prerequisites: MUSIC 221, MUSIC 223, MUSIC 324, and permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: MUSIC 241 and MUSIC 242.
Prerequisites: MUSIC 251, completion of one semester of voice or voice class and junior standing, or permission of instructor.
Prerequisites: MUSIC 252 or MUSIC 253.
Prerequisites: one of Economics 110-121 and completion of BTS-T or permission of instructor.


## Prereq: GEREQ
Prerequisite: BTS-B.
Prerequisite: BTS-T.
Prerequisite: BTS:B.
Prerequisite: completion of BTS-T or permission of instructor.
Prerequisite: completion of BTS-T. Required prior experience of political analysis or the study of religion.
Prerequisite: FYW.
Prerequisite: prior or concurrent enrollment in FYW.
Prerequisite: FYW. Counts toward American studies and English majors. Offered periodically.
Prerequisite:Completion of FOL general education requirement. For additional course info seehttp://www.stolaf.edu/services/wlc/also.html
Prerequisite: Completion of FOL general education requirement. For additional course info see http://www.stolaf.edu/services/wlc/also.html
Prerequisites: FYW and at least sophomore status.


## High School
Prerequisites: high school algebra and geometry.
Prerequisites: high school biology, chemistry, and physics; concurrent registration in MATH 119 or MATH 120 is recommended.
Prerequisites: high school chemistry and physics. Students planning to continue in chemistry should consider concurrent registration in MATH 119 or MATH 120. Placement via online placement exam is required. The course cannot be taken in conjunction with or after credit in CHEM 121.
